\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ChaosFight.info
@settitle ChaosFight Game Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@c %**end of header

@copying
ChaosFight Game Manual

Copyright @copyright{} 2025 Interworldly Adventuring, LLC.

@quotation
This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License.
To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/
or send a letter to Creative Commons, PO Box 1866, Mountain View, CA 94042, USA.

You are free to:
- Share — copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format
- Adapt — remix, transform, and build upon the material

Under the following terms:
- Attribution — You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made. You may do so in any reasonable manner, but not in any way that suggests the licensor endorses you or your use.
- NonCommercial — You may not use the material for commercial purposes.

No additional restrictions — You may not apply legal terms or technological measures that legally restrict others from doing anything the license permits.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title ChaosFight
@subtitle Atari 2600 Game Manual
@author Interworldly Adventuring, LLC

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top ChaosFight

This manual describes ChaosFight, a multiplayer fighting game for the Atari 2600
Video Computer System.

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                What is ChaosFight?
* Getting Started::             Setting up your game
* Controller Configuration::    Supported controllers and setup
* Character Selection::         Choosing your fighter
* Game Controls::               How to play
* Characters::                  The 16 fighters
* Combat System::               Fighting mechanics
* Game Modes::                  Different ways to play
* Console Switches::            Using console controls
* Tips and Strategies::         How to win
* Technical Information::       Game specifications
* Troubleshooting::             Common issues
* Credits::                     Who made this game
@end menu

@c ============================================================
@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@cindex introduction
@cindex overview

@center @strong{CHAOS FIGHT}
@sp 1
@center GAME PROGRAM™
@sp 1
@center INSTRUCTIONS
@sp 2
@center FOR ATARI® 2600
@sp 2
@center INTERWORLDLY ADVENTURING, LLC
@sp 1
@center Portland, Oregon
@sp 2
@center @copyright{} 2025 Interworldly Adventuring, LLC

@page

ChaosFight is a fast-paced fighting game for the Atari 2600 Video Computer System
featuring 16 unique characters, each with distinct abilities and attack styles.

@strong{Game Features:}

@itemize @bullet
@item
16 playable characters with unique moves and abilities

@item
2 to 4 player simultaneous combat@footnote{Four-player mode requires Quadtari adapter}

@item
16 battle arenas with platforms and obstacles

@item
Weight-based physics affecting jump height, speed, and knockback

@item
Compatible with colour or black & white television

@item
Supports CX-40 joysticks, Genesis controllers, Joy2B+, and Quadtari adapters
@end itemize

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Getting Started
@chapter Getting Started

@cindex getting started
@cindex setup

@section Equipment Required

@itemize @bullet
@item Atari 2600 Video Computer System
@item ChaosFight Game Cartridge
@item Television set
@item One to four joystick controllers
@item Quadtari adapter (optional, for 4-player mode)
@end itemize

@section Setup Instructions

@enumerate
@item
Turn off console and TV.

@item
Connect Atari 2600 to TV antenna input.

@item
Plug joystick(s) into controller ports (Player 1: left port, Player 2: right port).

@item
Insert ChaosFight cartridge into console. @emph{Never insert or remove cartridges
while power is on.}

@item
Turn on TV and select channel 3 or 4.

@item
Turn on Atari 2600 console.

@item
Press fire button to skip intro screens and begin character selection.
@end enumerate

@strong{Troubleshooting:}

@table @strong
@item No picture
Check TV channel (3 or 4) and antenna connection.

@item Controllers unresponsive
Verify connections and press fire button to activate controller detection.

@item Multicart users
Navigate multicart menu to ChaosFight ROM before starting.
@end table

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Controller Configuration
@chapter Controller Configuration

@cindex controllers
@cindex joystick

ChaosFight supports multiple controller types with automatic detection. Button
mappings vary by controller type.

@section CX-40 Joystick (Standard Controller)

@table @strong
@item Joystick
@itemize @bullet
@item LEFT/RIGHT: Move and turn character
@item UP: Jump (height varies by character weight)
@item DOWN: Guard (blocks damage for 1 second)
@end itemize

@item Fire Button
Attack with character's weapon (melee strike or ranged projectile)
@end table

Plug Player 1 into left port, Player 2 into right port.

@section Genesis/Mega Drive Controllers

Genesis controllers (3-button and 6-button) supported with automatic detection.
6-button models work fine; extra buttons (X, Y, Z, Mode) are not used.

@table @strong
@item D-Pad
@itemize @bullet
@item LEFT/RIGHT: Move and turn
@item DOWN: Guard
@item UP: Jump (traditional method, always works)
@end itemize

@item Button B (Middle)
Attack (standard fire button via INPT4/5)

@item Button C (Top Right)
Jump (alternative to UP - requires paddle port detection via INPT0/2)

@item Buttons A and START
Not usable (hardware limitation)
@end table

@strong{Technical:} Button C detection requires reading INPT0 (P1) or INPT2 (P2) paddle ports after grounding via VBLANK.

@strong{Note:} Genesis controllers disable Quadtari 4-player mode. Use CX-40
joysticks for 4-player games.

@section Joy2B+ Enhanced Controllers

@display
@group
              ╔═══════════════╗
              ║               ║
              ║   ↑       ③  ║  <--- Button III: Pause
              ║ ← + →     ②  ║  <--- Button II: Jump
              ║   ↓       ①  ║  <--- Button I: Attack
              ║               ║
              ║  [Extra]      ║  <--- Additional buttons
              ╚═══════════════╝       (varies by model)
                     |
                   Cable

    Fig. C - Joy2B+ Style Controller
@end group
@end display

Joy2B+ controllers are modern enhanced joysticks designed for the Atari 2600,
featuring three fire buttons and improved build quality.

@strong{How to Use It in ChaosFight:}

Joy2B+ controllers provide enhanced control with dedicated buttons:

@table @strong
@item Directional Control
Move the stick or D-pad:
@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{LEFT/RIGHT:} Move and turn your fighter
@item @strong{DOWN:} Guard (block attacks)
@item @strong{UP:} Jump (traditional method, always works)
@end itemize

@item Button I (INPT4/5)
@strong{Attack} - Standard fire button
@itemize @bullet
@item Melee characters: Close-range strike
@item Ranged characters: Fire projectile
@item Lock in character selection
@end itemize

@item Button II (INPT0/2)
@strong{Jump} - Alternative to UP (via paddle port)
@itemize @bullet
@item Jump height varies by character weight
@item Combine with LEFT/RIGHT for diagonal jumps
@item Confirm menu choices
@item Allows simultaneous attack + jump on separate buttons
@end itemize

@item Button III (INPT1/3)
@strong{Pause} - Alternative to Game Select (via paddle port)
@itemize @bullet
@item Freezes gameplay immediately
@item Press again to resume
@item More convenient than console switch
@end itemize

@item Additional Buttons
Extra buttons vary by Joy2B+ model and are not used by ChaosFight.
@end table

@strong{Technical Note:} Joy2B+ uses INPT0/1/2/3 (paddle/pot ports) for Buttons II and III. Detection requires grounding paddle ports via VBLANK and checking for HIGH state.

@strong{Why Choose Joy2B+?}

@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{Modern build quality:} New controllers, no wear and tear
@item @strong{Three dedicated buttons:} Attack, jump, and pause mapped to separate
buttons for ultimate control!
@item @strong{Most advanced control:} The only controller with pause button support
@item @strong{Comfortable design:} Ergonomic shapes for long gaming sessions
@item @strong{Compatible everywhere:} Works with all Atari 2600 games
@item @strong{Best for competitive play:} Separate attack and jump buttons enable
advanced techniques
@end itemize

@strong{Important Note:}

Like Genesis controllers, Joy2B+ controllers @strong{cannot be used with Quadtari}
for 4-player mode. If you want to play with four players, use standard CX-40
joysticks with a Quadtari adapter!

@section Four-Player Mode with Quadtari

@display
@group
    Quadtari Adapter

    PORT 1 (Even Frame)      PORT 2 (Odd Frame)
    Player 1 / Player 3      Player 2 / Player 4
@end group
@end display

The Quadtari uses time-multiplexing to support four controllers on two ports:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@strong{Even frames:} Reads Player 1 (left port) and Player 2 (right port)
@item
@strong{Odd frames:} Reads Player 3 (left port) and Player 4 (right port)
@end itemize

The game automatically detects Quadtari by checking the INPT4/INPT5 lines
during the Title screen.

@section Genesis Controller Mode

Sega Genesis 3-button controllers are supported with specific button mapping:

@table @strong
@item D-Pad
@itemize @bullet
@item LEFT/RIGHT: Move and turn
@item DOWN: Guard
@item UP: Not used (jump via Button C)
@end itemize

@item Button B
Attack (standard fire button - functions as joy0fire/joy1fire)

@item Button C
Jump (via TH line - requires SELECT toggling and reading INPT0/2)

@item Button A and START
Cannot be reliably detected on Atari 2600 hardware

@strong{Technical Note:} Button C requires toggling the TH (SELECT) line via SWACNT register and reading INPT0 (P1) or INPT2 (P2). This is more complex than standard button reading.
@end table

@strong{Note:} Genesis controllers and Quadtari cannot be used together.
The game will detect which type is connected.

@section Joy2B+ Controller Mode

Joy2B+ enhanced controllers are supported with the same button mapping as
standard joysticks. The additional buttons are not used in ChaosFight.

@strong{Note:} Joy2B+ and Quadtari cannot be used together.

@section Controller Detection

The game detects your controller configuration:

@enumerate
@item
When you press Game Select on the console
@item
When returning to the Title screen from any game mode
@item
During the initial Title screen display
@end enumerate

The detection checks for:
@enumerate
@item
Quadtari adapter (INPT4/INPT5 signature)
@item
Genesis controller (read mode register)
@item
Joy2B+ controller (extended INPT registers)
@item
Standard joysticks (default)
@end enumerate

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Character Selection
@chapter Character Selection

@cindex character selection
@cindex fighters

After the Title screen, each player chooses their fighter by cycling through 
the 16 available characters.

@section The Character Selection Screen

The screen shows character sprites in fixed positions:

@display
@group
    ╔════════════════════════════════╗
    ║                                ║
    ║   [Sprite]      [Sprite]       ║
    ║      1             2           ║
    ║                                ║
    ║   [Sprite]      [Sprite]       ║
    ║      3             4           ║
    ║  (Quadtari only)               ║
    ╚════════════════════════════════╝

    Fig. A - Character Selection Layout
@end group
@end display

Screen elements:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@strong{Character Sprites:} Animated 8×16 pixel sprites showing current selection

@item
@strong{Player Numbers:} Playfield digit indicators (1-4) below each sprite

@item
@strong{Lock Indicators:} Playfield border appears around locked selections

@item
@strong{Handicap Mode:} Character freezes in recovery pose when DOWN is held
@end itemize

@emph{Note:} The Atari 2600 cannot display text. Character names and statistics
are not shown on screen. Refer to this manual to identify characters.

@section Selection Controls

@table @strong
@item LEFT/RIGHT
Cycle through 16 characters (wraps around: 15→0, 0→15)

@item UP or DOWN (without FIRE)
Unlock current selection to browse again

@item FIRE
Lock in character selection
@itemize @bullet
@item Playfield border appears around locked sprite
@item Moving joystick after locking will unlock selection
@end itemize
@end table

@section Starting the Game

@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{2-player mode:} Game starts when Player 1 locks selection
@item @strong{4-player mode (Quadtari):} Game starts when at least 2 players lock
selections
@end itemize

@section Character Identification

Since character names cannot be displayed, memorise positions:

@table @strong
@item Position 0
Bernie

@item Position 1
Curling Sweeper

@item Position 2
Dragonet

@item Position 3-15
See @ref{Characters} for complete roster order
@end table

@section Handicapping for Advanced Players

Skilled players can start with reduced health for added challenge.

@strong{Activating Handicap Mode:}

@enumerate
@item
Select your character with LEFT/RIGHT

@item
Hold DOWN on the joystick

@item
While holding DOWN, press FIRE to lock selection

@item
Character sprite freezes in recovery pose (visual confirmation)
@end enumerate

@strong{Handicap Effect:}

@itemize @bullet
@item Starting health: 75 instead of 100 (25% reduction)
@item All other abilities unchanged
@item Health bar starts 25% shorter during gameplay
@end itemize

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Game Controls
@chapter Game Controls

@cindex controls
@cindex joystick controls
@cindex movement

@section Basic Movement

Hold the Controller with the red button to your upper left towards the TV screen.

@display
@group
              JUMP
                ^
                |
    LEFT <----STAND----> RIGHT
                |
                v
              GUARD

    Fig. A - ChaosFight Controls
@end group
@end display

@table @strong
@item LEFT
Move your character to the left. If facing right, character will turn around.

@item RIGHT
Move your character to the right. If facing left, character will turn around.

@item UP (JUMP)
Make your character jump. Jump height varies by character weight:
@itemize @bullet
@item Light characters (Ninjish Guy, Radish Goblin): High jumps
@item Medium characters (Pork Chop, Grizzard Handler): Normal jumps
@item Heavy characters (Ursulo, Fat Tony): Lower jumps
@item Special: Some characters have unique jump abilities (see @ref{Characters})
@end itemize

@item DOWN (GUARD)
Enter guard stance. While guarding:
@itemize @bullet
@item You take NO damage from attacks
@item You cannot move or attack
@item Guard lasts maximum 1 second (60 frames)
@item Character flashes to indicate guard is active
@end itemize

@item FIRE BUTTON
Perform your character's attack:
@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{Melee characters:} Close-range punch/slash in facing direction
@item @strong{Ranged characters:} Fire projectile in facing direction
@end itemize
@end table

@page

@section Advanced Mechanics

@subsection Momentum and Physics

ChaosFight features realistic physics:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@strong{Gravity:} Characters fall naturally when airborne

@item
@strong{Momentum:} Movement builds up and decays gradually
@itemize @minus
@item Lighter characters accelerate faster
@item Heavier characters have more inertia
@end itemize

@item
@strong{Knockback:} Getting hit pushes you back
@itemize @minus
@item Direction depends on attacker's facing
@item Distance based on attack strength and your weight
@item You enter "recovery" state and cannot act briefly
@end itemize

@item
@strong{Wall Collision:} Characters bounce off walls
@itemize @minus
@item Bounce distance based on character weight
@item Heavier characters bounce less
@item Lighter characters bounce more
@end itemize

@item
@strong{Player Collision:} Characters can walk through each other but are
slightly pushed apart to prevent overlap
@end itemize

@subsection Attack System

@display
@group
    MELEE ATTACK              RANGED ATTACK

       [==]                      [o]-->
      /    \                    /    \
     PLAYER  -->  <HITBOX>     PLAYER   <MISSILE>
@end group
@end display

@table @strong
@item Melee Attacks
@itemize @bullet
@item Hit enemies directly in front of character
@item Range: 16 pixels
@item Instant hit detection
@item Cannot be blocked by obstacles
@item @strong{Special:} Bernie attacks both directions simultaneously!
@end itemize

@item Ranged Attacks
@itemize @bullet
@item Fire projectile across screen
@item Two types: @strong{Arrowshot} (straight) or @strong{Ballistic} (parabolic arc)
@item May disappear on impact or pass through
@item Can be blocked by walls (character-dependent)
@item Projectile size varies by character
@end itemize
@end table

@subsection Recovery System

After taking damage, characters enter @strong{recovery} (hitstun):

@enumerate
@item
Character flashes rapidly
@item
Cannot attack or guard
@item
Cannot take additional damage (invulnerable)
@item
Slides backward from knockback momentum
@item
Lasts 15-30 frames depending on damage taken
@end enumerate

This prevents infinite combos and gives players a chance to recover position.

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Characters
@chapter The 16 Fighters

@cindex characters
@cindex fighters

Each character has unique properties affecting gameplay:

@table @strong
@item Weight
Affects jump height, movement speed, and knockback resistance
@item Attack Type
Melee (close range) or Ranged (projectile)
@item Special Abilities
Unique movement or attack properties
@end table

@section Character Roster

@subsection Bernie
@display
@group
    Weight: Very Heavy
    Attack: Ranged (1×1 pixel, arrowshot) + Melee (BOTH DIRECTIONS!)
    Special: No jumping; wraps from bottom to top of screen; fall damage immunity
@end group
@end display

Bernie cannot jump, but he can fall off the bottom of the screen and reappear
at the top! His unique attack hits both in front AND behind simultaneously 
(dual-direction AOE), making him dangerous in crowds. His small ranged projectile
(1×1 pixel) travels horizontally. Bernie's tough constitution grants complete
immunity to fall damage.

@subsection Curling Sweeper
@display
@group
    Weight: Medium
    Attack: Ranged (from feet, 4×2 pixels, ballistic)
    Special: Projectile comes from character's feet
@end group
@end display

The Curling Sweeper fires a wide projectile (4 pixels wide, 2 pixels tall)
from ground level, sliding across the floor. Great for hitting low targets!

@subsection Dragonet
@display
@group
    Weight: Medium-Light
    Attack: Ranged (2×2 pixels, ballistic arc)
    Special: Fires projectiles in a parabolic arc
@end group
@end display

Dragonet fires a small projectile (2×2 pixels) that travels in a ballistic arc,
making it excellent for hitting enemies at different heights!

@subsection EXO Pilot
@display
@group
    Weight: Light
    Attack: Ranged (long/wide bullet, arrowshot)
    Special: High jumps, fast horizontal projectile
@end group
@end display

The EXO Pilot fires a long, thin missile that travels horizontally across
the entire screen. Excellent for long-range combat!

@subsection Fat Tony
@display
@group
    Weight: Heavy
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Standard heavy fighter
@end group
@end display

@subsection Grizzard Handler
@display
@group
    Weight: Medium
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Standard medium fighter
@end group
@end display

@subsection Harpy
@display
@group
    Weight: Light
    Attack: Melee (swoop attack)
    Special: Can "fly" by repeatedly pressing UP
@end group
@end display

The Harpy can maintain flight by repeatedly jumping! Her attack causes her
to swoop down diagonally while performing a melee strike.

@subsection Knight Guy
@display
@group
    Weight: Very Heavy
    Attack: Ranged (3×3 pixels, arrowshot)
    Special: Armored fighter with powerful projectile, longest melee duration (6 frames)
@end group
@end display

Knight Guy combines heavy armor with a powerful ranged attack. His projectile
is larger than most (3×3 pixels) and travels in a straight line, making him
a formidable opponent at any range!

@subsection Magical Faerie
@display
@group
    Weight: Very Light
    Attack: Ranged (small sparkle, ballistic)
    Special: FREE FLIGHT - use UP/DOWN to move vertically, no guard action
@end group
@end display

The Magical Faerie can fly freely up and down using the joystick! However,
she cannot guard (pressing DOWN makes her fly down instead). Her ranged
attack creates magical sparkles.

@subsection Mystery Man
@display
@group
    Weight: Medium
    Attack: To Be Determined
    Special: Reserved for future expansion
@end group
@end display

@subsection Ninjish Guy
@display
@group
    Weight: Very Light
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Highest jumps, fastest movement, 50% fall damage reduction
@end group
@end display

The Ninjish Guy is one of the lightest characters, giving him incredible
mobility and the highest jump in the game. His ninja training also grants
him 50% reduction to fall damage, making him excellent at aerial combat!

@subsection Pork Chop
@display
@group
    Weight: Heavy
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Standard heavy melee fighter
@end group
@end display

@subsection Radish Goblin
@display
@group
    Weight: Very Light
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Highest jumps, fastest movement, lowest health
@end group
@end display

The Radish Goblin is the lightest character, giving him incredible mobility
but making him more vulnerable to knockback.

@subsection Robo Tito
@display
@group
    Weight: Very Heavy
    Attack: Melee
    Special: No jumping! Stretches vertically to ceiling; fall damage immunity
@end group
@end display

Due to a programming error in his system, Robo Tito is allergic to scary things.
To his misfortune, he is trapped in a place infested with scary things (zombies,
ghosts, bats, skulls), so he has to look for an exit, avoiding touching those
spooky items.

Robo Tito is a jumpless platformer character who can't jump, but he can stretch
to reach platforms and hang from them. Use your joystick controller to move
Tito left and right along the floor. You can press UP on your controller to
stretch Tito up to the ceiling, which he will then grab and hang on to. You can
then move Tito left and right along the ceiling. To get back down to the floor,
press DOWN on your joystick until Tito reaches the floor.

In ChaosFight, Robo Tito's stretching ability works the same way. His
``stretched'' form consists of not clearing the Player graphics (sprite) so its
last scanline repeats to the bottom of where the robot is ``really'' standing,
and he is vulnerable the entire length to collisions. His robotic construction
grants complete immunity to fall damage, making him dangerous when dropping
from heights.

@subsection Ursulo
@display
@group
    Weight: Heavy
    Attack: Ranged (2×2 pixels, ballistic arc)
    Special: Strongest throw, hardest to knock back
@end group
@end display

Ursulo is one of the heaviest characters, making him extremely resistant to 
knockback but also giving him a lower jump height. His powerful ranged attack
fires a 2×2 pixel projectile with the highest arc (velocity 7 horizontal, -6
vertical), making it excellent for hitting enemies on platforms!

@subsection Veg Dog
@display
@group
    Weight: Light
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Standard light melee fighter
@end group
@end display

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Combat System
@chapter Combat System

@cindex combat
@cindex fighting
@cindex damage
@cindex health

@section Health and Damage

@display
@group
    HEALTH BARS (Top of Screen)

    ████████████████████  Player 1 (Blue)
    ████████████████      Player 2 (Red)
    ██████████████████    Player 3 (Yellow)
    ████████████          Player 4 (Green)
@end group
@end display

Each player's health is displayed as a coloured bar at the top of the screen:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Starting health: 100 points
@item
Bar length scales to health (0-32 pixels)
@item
Colors match player colors
@item
Health bars update every 4 frames (1 player per frame for performance)
@end itemize

@section Damage System

Damage varies by character and attack type:

@table @strong
@item Light Melee (10-15 damage)
Radish Goblin, Veg Dog, Ninjish Guy

@item Medium Melee (15-20 damage)
Pork Chop, Dragonet, Grizzard Handler, Harpy

@item Heavy Melee (20-25 damage)
Knight Guy, Fat Tony, Ursulo, Bernie

@item Small Ranged (8-12 damage)
Ninjish Guy, Magical Faerie

@item Medium Ranged (12-18 damage)
Robo Tito, Curling Sweeper

@item Large Ranged (15-22 damage)
EXO Pilot
@end table

@section Victory Conditions

@display
@group
                    PLAYER 2 WINS!

                      [Winner]
                     /        \
                    VICTORY!
@end group
@end display

The last player with health remaining wins!

@itemize @bullet
@item
When your health reaches 0, you are eliminated
@item
Your sprite disappears from the playfield
@item
In 4-player mode, battle continues until only one remains
@item
Winner is displayed with their player number and character
@end itemize

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Game Modes
@chapter Game Modes

@cindex game modes
@cindex difficulty

ChaosFight offers multiple ways to play:

@section Two-Player Battle

@display
@group
    [Player 1]              [Player 2]
       (Blue)                 (Red)
@end group
@end display

Classic one-on-one combat. Each player selects a character and fights until
one is victorious.

@section Four-Player Chaos

@display
@group
    [P1]    [P2]    [P3]    [P4]
    Blue    Red    Yellow  Green
@end group
@end display

Requires Quadtari adapter. All four players battle simultaneously in a
free-for-all! Last player standing wins.

@strong{Note:} Collision detection and health bar updates are spread across
multiple frames in 4-player mode to maintain smooth performance:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Health bars update 1 per frame (cycle: P1, P2, P3, P4)
@item
Collision checks spread across 3 frames:
@itemize @minus
@item Frame 0: P1 vs P2, P1 vs P3
@item Frame 1: P1 vs P4, P2 vs P3
@item Frame 2: P2 vs P4, P3 vs P4
@end itemize
@end itemize

@section Battle Arenas

Select from 16 different arenas during Level Select! Each arena offers unique
tactical opportunities:

@subsection Arenas 1-8: Open Ground Variations
@display
@group
###########################################
#                                         #
#                                         #
#                                         #
#     [P1]                        [P2]    #
#                                         #
#==========================================#

    Fig. B - Open Ground Arena (Pattern)
@end group
@end display

Simple flat ground. Pure fighting with no obstacles. Eight variations with
different playfield patterns provide variety while maintaining the classic
head-to-head combat feel.

@subsection Arenas 9-16: Platform and Pit Variations
@display
@group
###########################################
#                                         #
#        =======       =======            #
#                                         #
#   [P1]         =====         [P2]       #
#                                         #
#==========================================#

    Fig. C - Platform Arena (Pattern)
@end group
@end display

Multiple platforms for vertical combat. Jump to higher ground for advantage!
Eight variations feature different platform arrangements, pit configurations,
and obstacle placements to keep battles fresh and tactical.

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Console Switches
@chapter Console Switches

@cindex console switches
@cindex reset
@cindex select
@cindex difficulty

The console switches provide additional game control:

@section GAME RESET Switch

@display
@group
    RESET
    =====
@end group
@end display

Pressing the RESET switch:

@enumerate
@item
Returns to Character Selection screen
@item
Clears all player selections
@item
Re-detects controllers
@item
Resets all game state
@end enumerate

Use this to start a new game or change characters between matches.

@section GAME SELECT Switch

@display
@group
    SELECT
    ======
@end group
@end display

Pressing the SELECT switch:

@enumerate
@item
Cycles through available game modes (if multiple modes)
@item
Re-detects controller configuration
@item
Can be used to refresh controller detection if players aren't responding
@end enumerate

@section TV TYPE Switch (COLOR/B&W)

@display
@group
    COLOR <---> B&W
@end group
@end display

ChaosFight automatically detects the TV TYPE switch and adjusts all colors accordingly.

@table @strong
@item COLOR Position
Full color display with distinct player colors:
@itemize @bullet
@item Player 1: Blue
@item Player 2: Red
@item Player 3: Yellow (4-player mode)
@item Player 4: Green (4-player mode)
@item Playfield: White
@item Background: Black
@end itemize

@item B&W Position
Grayscale display with brightness differentiation:
@itemize @bullet
@item Player 1: Very bright grey (luminance 14)
@item Player 2: Medium-bright grey (luminance 10)
@item Player 3: Medium grey (luminance 8)
@item Player 4: Dark-medium grey (luminance 6)
@item Playfield: White (luminance 14)
@item Background: Black (luminance 0)
@end itemize
@end table

@strong{Damage Indication:}

When characters take damage, colors darken in both modes:
@itemize @bullet
@item @strong{Color mode:} Hue remains same, luminance reduced by 50%
@item @strong{B&W mode:} Grey darkens by 6-8 luminance levels
@end itemize

@strong{Health Bars:}

Health bars maintain distinct brightness levels in B&W mode, matching sprite colors for easy player identification.

@section DIFFICULTY Switches

@display
@group
    LEFT DIFFICULTY    RIGHT DIFFICULTY
    (Player 1/3)       (Player 2/4)
@end group
@end display

The difficulty switches affect gameplay:

@table @strong
@item Position A (Advanced)
@itemize @bullet
@item Shorter attack range (12 pixels vs 16 pixels)
@item Slower movement speed (80% normal)
@item Longer attack cooldown (20 frames vs 15 frames)
@end itemize

@item Position B (Beginner)
@itemize @bullet
@item Normal attack range (16 pixels)
@item Normal movement speed
@item Normal attack cooldown (15 frames)
@end itemize
@end table

@strong{Controller Port Mapping:}
@itemize @bullet
@item LEFT DIFFICULTY affects Players 1 and 3
@item RIGHT DIFFICULTY affects Players 2 and 4
@end itemize

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Tips and Strategies
@chapter Tips and Strategies

@cindex tips
@cindex strategies
@cindex tactics

Master these techniques to become a ChaosFight champion!

@section Basic Techniques

@subsection Timing Your Attacks

@display
@group
    ATTACK -----> <----- COOLDOWN ----> ATTACK
      [==]         (wait)  xxxxxx         [==]
@end group
@end display

@itemize @bullet
@item
Each attack has a cooldown period (15-20 frames)
@item
You cannot attack again until cooldown expires
@item
Watch for your character's animation to return to idle
@item
Don't spam the fire button - time your strikes!
@end itemize

@subsection Effective Guarding

@display
@group
    INCOMING!                    GUARD!
       -->o-->  [YOU]    vs.    -->o-->  [[YOU]]
                 |                        BLOCKED!
@end group
@end display

@itemize @bullet
@item
Guard lasts maximum 1 second
@item
Use it to block predictable attacks
@item
You're vulnerable immediately after guard ends
@item
Don't hold guard too long - you can't counterattack!
@end itemize

@subsection Spacing Control

@display
@group
    BAD:  [YOU][ENEMY]     Too close! Easy to hit.
    GOOD: [YOU]     [ENEMY] Maintain safe distance.
@end group
@end display

@itemize @bullet
@item
Keep distance from melee fighters
@item
Close the gap against ranged fighters
@item
Use platforms to control engagement distance
@item
Retreat when health is low
@end itemize

@section Advanced Tactics

@subsection Character Matchups

@strong{Playing Melee vs Ranged:}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Stay mobile - don't be a stationary target
@item
Use platforms to block projectiles
@item
Time your jumps to avoid shots
@item
Rush in after opponent fires (during cooldown)
@end itemize

@strong{Playing Ranged vs Melee:}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Maintain maximum distance
@item
Fire and retreat
@item
Use knockback to keep opponent away
@item
Jump to higher platforms for safety
@end itemize

@subsection Weight Class Tactics

@strong{Light Characters (Ninjish, Radish, Faerie):}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Use superior mobility for hit-and-run attacks
@item
Jump frequently to avoid attacks
@item
Be careful - you take more knockback!
@item
Don't trade blows with heavy characters
@end itemize

@strong{Heavy Characters (Ursulo, Bernie, Knight):}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Stand your ground - you're hard to knock back
@item
Use your weight advantage in close combat
@item
Don't chase fast opponents - let them come to you
@item
Control center stage
@end itemize

@subsection Arena-Specific Tactics

@strong{Open Ground:}
@itemize @bullet
@item
No hiding - stay alert!
@item
Circular movement keeps you safe
@item
Ranged characters have advantage
@end itemize

@strong{Platforms:}
@itemize @bullet
@item
High ground advantage for ranged attacks
@item
Jump between platforms to escape
@item
Melee fighters: attack from below/above
@end itemize

@strong{Pit:}
@itemize @bullet
@item
Don't get cornered in the pit!
@item
Control the edges
@item
Knock opponents into the pit
@end itemize

@subsection Four-Player Strategies

@display
@group
         [P1]
              \
    [P4] ----  ---- [P2]
              /
         [P3]

    Stay unpredictable in FFA!
@end group
@end display

@itemize @bullet
@item
@strong{Avoid the center} - you'll be surrounded!
@item
@strong{Let others fight} - third-party while they're distracted
@item
@strong{Target the leader} - whoever has most health is the threat
@item
@strong{Stay mobile} - standing still means getting hit from multiple angles
@item
@strong{Use revenge attacks} - immediately counterattack whoever hit you
@end itemize

@section Character-Specific Tips

@table @strong
@item Bernie
Use your dual-direction attack when surrounded. Your screen wrap is great
for surprise attacks from above!

@item Robo Tito
Your vertical extension reaches the entire screen height. Use it to avoid
ground attacks!

@item Harpy
Maintain flight by rapidly tapping UP. Swoop down for devastating diving attacks!

@item Magical Faerie
Your free flight makes you incredibly mobile, but remember you can't guard!
Stay out of melee range.

@item Curling Sweeper
Your low projectile is hard to jump over. Fire and immediately jump yourself
to create a two-level attack!

@item EXO Pilot
Your long-range missiles are perfect for cross-screen combat. Keep maximum
distance!
@end table

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Technical Information
@chapter Technical Information

@cindex technical information
@cindex specifications

@section System Requirements

@table @strong
@item Console
Atari 2600 Video Computer System (NTSC, PAL, or SECAM)

@item Cartridge Type
64K bank-switched (F8SC or compatible)

@item RAM
Standard 128 bytes + SuperChip 128 bytes

@item Controllers
1-4 Joystick Controllers (see @ref{Controller Configuration})

@item Display
Color or Black & White television

@item Optional
Quadtari adapter for 4-player mode
@end table

@section Technical Specifications

@subsection ROM Organization

@display
@group
    Bank 1-16: Game code and data (16 × 4K banks)
    Bank Layout:
      1-3:   Title sequence, preambles, character select
      4-8:   Gameplay routines (combat, physics, rendering)
      9-12:  Character definitions and animation data
      13-16: Level data, music data
@end group
@end display

@subsection Memory Usage

@display
@group
    STANDARD RAM (128 bytes):
      a-z: 26 variables (general purpose)

    SUPERCHIP RAM (128 bytes):
      var0-var47: Available for variables
      var48-var127: Playfield data (varies by pfres)

    PLAYFIELD RESOLUTION:
      Title/Preamble screens: pfres=32 (32×32 pixels)
      Gameplay screens: pfres=8 (32×8 pixels)
@end group
@end display

@subsection Graphics System

@table @strong
@item Player Sprites
2 hardware sprites (8 pixels wide × 16 pixels tall)
@itemize @bullet
@item Player 1: Blue
@item Player 2: Red
@end itemize

@item Missile Sprites
2 hardware missile sprites (variable width)
@itemize @bullet
@item Used for Players 3 & 4 in Quadtari mode
@item Used for ranged attack projectiles in 2-player mode
@end itemize

@item Ball Sprite
1 hardware ball sprite (variable width)
@itemize @bullet
@item Used for Player 4 in Quadtari mode
@item Used for additional projectiles
@end itemize

@item Playfield
32 pixels wide × up to 192 scanlines
@itemize @bullet
@item Color-per-row support on title screens
@item Standard two-color mode during gameplay
@end itemize
@end table

@subsection Performance Optimizations

ChaosFight uses frame budgeting to maintain consistent 60 FPS (NTSC) / 50 FPS (PAL):

@enumerate
@item
@strong{Health Bar Updates:} 1 player per frame (4-frame cycle)

@item
@strong{Collision Detection:} Spread across 3 frames in 4-player mode
@itemize @bullet
@item Frame 0: Check 2 collision pairs
@item Frame 1: Check 2 collision pairs
@item Frame 2: Check 2 collision pairs
@end itemize

@item
@strong{Missile Collisions:} Alternating frames check different missiles

@item
@strong{Animation Updates:} Characters update on staggered frames
@end enumerate

This ensures game logic never exceeds the overscan period (~1950 CPU cycles
on NTSC, ~1630 cycles on PAL).

@subsection Audio System

@table @strong
@item Sound Channels
2 channels (TIA AUDC0/AUDC1)
@itemize @bullet
@item Channel 0: Music (title and preamble screens only)
@item Channel 1: Sound effects (gameplay only)
@end itemize

@item Music Format
@itemize @bullet
@item Converted from MuseScore (MSCZ) to MIDI to TIA data
@item Stored as data tables: instrument, frequency, duration
@item Three songs: AtariToday, Interworldly, Chaotica
@end itemize

@item Sound Effects
@itemize @bullet
@item "Chirp" for character selection
@item Attack sounds (melee and ranged)
@item Impact sounds
@item Victory fanfare
@end itemize
@end table

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Troubleshooting
@chapter Troubleshooting

@cindex troubleshooting
@cindex problems
@cindex issues

@section Common Issues

@subsection Controllers Not Responding

@strong{Problem:} Joystick inputs are not detected.

@strong{Solutions:}
@enumerate
@item
Press the GAME SELECT switch to re-detect controllers

@item
Check that controllers are firmly connected to the correct ports

@item
Try pressing a fire button at the Title screen to trigger detection

@item
If using Quadtari, ensure it's properly connected and powered
@end enumerate

@subsection Four Players Not Working

@strong{Problem:} Only 2 players are active despite Quadtari being connected.

@strong{Solutions:}
@enumerate
@item
Verify your Quadtari adapter is compatible with Atari 2600

@item
Press GAME SELECT to re-detect the Quadtari

@item
Ensure all four controllers are connected to the Quadtari

@item
Note: Quadtari is detected during Title screen - don't skip it too quickly!
@end enumerate

@subsection Screen Flicker or Slowdown

@strong{Problem:} Graphics appear choppy or unstable.

@strong{Solutions:}
@enumerate
@item
This is normal in 4-player mode due to hardware limitations

@item
Health bars and collision detection are intentionally spread across frames

@item
Ensure your console is properly ventilated

@item
Clean the cartridge contacts with isopropyl alcohol
@end enumerate

@subsection Characters Look Wrong

@strong{Problem:} Character colors appear incorrect or hard to distinguish.

@strong{Solutions:}
@enumerate
@item
Check the COLOR/B&W switch position:
@itemize @bullet
@item COLOR position: Characters are Blue, Red, Yellow, Green
@item B&W position: Characters are different shades of grey
@end itemize

@item
For black & white TVs, set switch to B&W position for proper brightness levels

@item
Adjust your TV's brightness/contrast for better grey differentiation (B&W mode)

@item
Adjust your TV's color/tint settings (Color mode)

@item
Verify correct ROM version (NTSC/PAL/SECAM) for your console
@end enumerate

@subsection Game Won't Start from Multicart

@strong{Problem:} ChaosFight doesn't launch from multicart menu.

@strong{Solutions:}
@enumerate
@item
Ensure you have the correct ROM version for your multicart

@item
Try loading a different ROM first, then load ChaosFight

@item
Some multicarts require specific bank-switching types - consult documentation

@item
Verify the ROM file is not corrupted (check MD5 checksum if available)
@end enumerate

@section Getting Help

If you continue to experience issues:

@enumerate
@item
Check for ROM updates at @url{https://interworldly.com}

@item
Consult homebrew Atari 2600 community forums for technical support

@item
Contact Interworldly Adventuring at @url{https://interworldly.com}
@end enumerate

@page

@c ============================================================
@node Credits
@chapter Credits

@cindex credits
@cindex acknowledgments

@section Development Team

@strong{ChaosFight} was developed by:

@table @strong
@item Programming
Bruce-Robert Pocock

@item Graphics
Bruce-Robert Pocock

@item Music
Bruce-Robert Pocock

@item Game Design
Bruce-Robert Pocock

@item Testing
[Playtesters TBD]
@end table

@section Special Thanks

@itemize @bullet
@item
Fred @dfn{batari} Quimby (batariBasic compiler)
@item
Ryan Witmer
@item
Lewis @dfn{Muddyfunster} Hill
@item
Blake @dfn{SmittyB} Smith
@item
Zephyr Pocock
@item
Philip @dfn{Splendidnut} Blackman
@item
Vladimir @dfn{vhzc} Zúñiga
@item
Atari 2600 homebrew community
@item
Random Terrain (batariBasic documentation)
@end itemize

@section Tools Used

ChaosFight was created with:

@itemize @bullet
@item
@strong{batariBasic} - High-level BASIC compiler for Atari 2600
@item
@strong{DASM} - Macro assembler
@item
@strong{SkylineTool} - Asset conversion toolkit (Common Lisp)
@item
@strong{GIMP} - Graphics editing
@item
@strong{MuseScore} - Music composition
@item
@strong{Emacs} - Text editing
@item
@strong{Stella} - Atari 2600 emulator for testing
@end itemize

@section Copyright and License

@display
@group
ChaosFight
Copyright @copyright{} 2025 Interworldly Adventuring, LLC.
All rights reserved.

An independent homebrew game for the Atari 2600
Portland, Oregon
@url{https://interworldly.com}
@end group
@end display

This game is an independent homebrew production for the Atari 2600.
Distribution is subject to terms established by Interworldly Adventuring, LLC.

ATARI® is a registered trademark. This is an independent production and is
not endorsed by or affiliated with Atari or any successor companies.

@section Version Information

@display
@group
    Version: 1.0
    Build Date: 2025-10-28
    ROM Size: 64K
    Compatibility: NTSC/PAL/SECAM
@end group
@end display

@page

@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
