@subsection Frooty
@display
@group
    Age: 24
    Weight: 55 kg (120 lbs)
    Attack: Ranged (magical sparkles)
    Special: Can fly using UP/DOWN to move vertically (no guard action)
    Likes: Candy
    Hates: Boredom
    Original Game: Magical Fairy Force, Championship, and Drop
    Author: Ryan Witmer @url{https://phasercat.com,Phaser Cat Games}
    Purchase: @url{https://store.atariage.com/products/magical-fairy-force-atari-2600,Magical Fairy Force at AtariAge Store}; @url{https://store.steampowered.com/app/2144100/Magical_Fairy_Force__Champion_Edition/,Magical Fairy Force Champion Edition on Steam}; @url{https://store.atariage.com/store_search?q=fairy+drop,Fairy Drop at AtariAge Store}
    Forum: @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/307426-magical-fairy-force-release-thread/,Magical Fairy Force release thread}; @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/368460-magical-fairy-drop/,Fairy Drop release thread}
@end group
@end display

Captain of Queen Sugar's royal guard, Frooty is loyal, powerful, hyper, and 
ever so slightly insane. As the one charged with the defence of Fairy Land, 
she carries an enormous responsibility as she leads the queen's armies into 
battle in Magical Fairy Force. Her role expanded in the Championship and 
Drop games, where she continued to serve as a key protector of the magical 
realm.

Frooty also oversees a number of secret research projects in Fairy Land, some 
of which are finally starting to produce results. Her dedication to both 
military strategy and magical research makes her a formidable leader, even if 
her hyperactive personality and love of candy sometimes mask her serious 
responsibilities.

Frooty can fly freely up and down using the joystick! However, she cannot 
guard (pressing DOWN makes her fly down instead). Her ranged attack fires 
magical sparkles from her lollipop weapon. This generic fairy archetype 
represents the classic fairy fighter perfectly, combining whimsical charm with 
deadly combat prowess.
