@subsection Harpy
@display
@group
    Weight: 15 kg (30 lbs)
    Attack: Mêlée (diagonal swoop)
    Special: Can fly by repeatedly pressing UP (flapping wings)
    Background: Former prisoner of the deadly labyrinth, defeated the Great Sphinx
    Nature: Swift of wing and vicious in combat
    Experience: Veteran of maze battles, collector of legendary artifacts
    Original Game: Harpy's Curse
    Author: Todd "Revontulli" Furmanski
    Purchase: @url{https://store.atariage.com/products/harpys-curse-atari-2600,Harpy's Curse at AtariAge Store}; @url{https://atari.com/pages/atari-vcs-store,Harpy's Curse on Atari VCS eShop}
    Forum: @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/,Harpy's Curse release thread}
@end group
@end display

You are a harpy - swift of wing and vicious in nature. Once exiled to a 
perilous labyrinth by the Great Sphinx, you were forced to navigate through 
corridors of rock, brick, and bone. Your mission was to locate and defeat four 
guardians before confronting the Great Sphinx herself to secure your freedom. 
Throughout your journey, you uncovered hidden secrets, evaded deadly traps, 
and battled various denizens of the maze. The labyrinth contained legendary 
artifacts - feathers of legendary birds and beasts that aided your escape and 
enhanced your powers.

Now free of the maze, you bring that hard-won combat experience to ChaosFight. 
Your time battling through the labyrinth's dangers has honed your aerial combat 
skills to perfection. The Harpy can maintain flight by repeatedly flapping
her wings (jump button or up on the joystick), and 
her attack causes her to swoop down diagonally while performing a devastating 
strike. These techniques were perfected during your trials against the four 
guardians and the Great Sphinx.
