@subsection Pork Chop
@display
@group
    Weight: 115 kg (250 lbs)
    Attack: Mêlée
    Special: (none)
    Career History: Fairy employee, bank guard, sewer cleaner, curling athlete
    Former Team: Team Koe (Edmonton) member@footnote{Team Koe is a professional curling team based in Calgary/Edmonton, Alberta. Curling team names and trademarks are property of their respective organizations.}
    Original Game: Ratcatcher, Magical Fairy Force, and Rob 'N' Banks
    Author: Ryan Witmer @url{https://phasercat.com,Phaser Cat Games}
    Purchase: @url{https://store.atariage.com/products/rob-n-banks-atari-2600,Rob 'N' Banks at AtariAge Store}; @url{https://store.atariage.com/products/magical-fairy-force-atari-2600,Magical Fairy Force at AtariAge Store}; @url{https://store.atariage.com/products/ratcatcher-atari-2600,Ratcatcher at AtariAge Store}; @url{https://store.steampowered.com/app/2144100/Magical_Fairy_Force__Champion_Edition/,Magical Fairy Force Champion Edition on Steam}
    Forum: @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/336986-rob-n-banks-release-thread/,Rob 'N' Banks release thread}; @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/307426-magical-fairy-force-release-thread/,Magical Fairy Force release thread}; @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/253218-ratcatcher-a-new-original-atari-5200-game/,Ratcatcher release thread}; @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/368460-magical-fairy-drop/,Fairy Drop release thread}
@end group
@end display

Pork Chop has had a diverse career across multiple games. In Magical Fairy Force, 
he worked as an employee for the fairies of Fairy Land, serving alongside Queen 
Sugar's royal guard and learning the ways of magical combat. His time in the 
sewers as a ratcatcher gave him experience in close-quarters combat against 
dangerous infestations, honing his skills in Ratcatcher. As a bank guard in 
Rob 'N' Banks, he protected financial institutions from robbers, developing 
defensive tactics and situational awareness. His brief stint on the Edmonton 
curling team (Team Koe) taught him precision and teamwork.

From the delicate work with magical fairies to the rough-and-tumble world of 
bank security, from the unpleasant but necessary sewer maintenance to the 
precise sport of curling, Pork Chop has learned to adapt to any environment. 
His heavy build and reliable mêlée attacks reflect the steady, dependable 
nature that has served him well across all his various careers. His diverse 
work experience has given him a well-rounded skill set and the determination 
to handle any situation thrown at him.
