@subsection Robo Tito
@display
@group
    Weight: 135 kg (300 lbs)
    Attack: Melee
    Special: Can stretch vertically to ceiling (press UP to latch, DOWN to release); takes limited fall damage
    Original Game: Tito el robotito contra los fantasmas (jumpless platformer)
    Programming Error: Allergic to scary things (zombies, ghosts, bats, skulls)
    Purchase: @url{https://store.atariage.com/products/robo-tito-atari-2600,Robo Tito at AtariAge Store}
    Forum: @url{https://forums.atariage.com/topic/,Robo Tito release thread}
@end group
@end display

Robo Tito (a.k.a "Tito el robotito") is a jumpless 
platformer character, a robot that can't jump, but he 
can stretch to reach platforms and hang from them.

Due to a programming error in his system, he is allergic to scary things. To 
his misfortune he is trapped in a place infested with scary things (zombies, 
ghosts, bats, skulls), so he has to look for an exit, avoiding touching those 
spooky items.

Use your joystick controller to move Tito left and right along the floor. You 
can press UP on your controller to stretch Tito up to the ceiling, which he 
will then grab and hang on to. You can then move Tito left and right along 
the ceiling. To get back down to the floor, press DOWN on your joystick until 
Tito reaches the floor.

In ChaosFight, his stretch ability works the same way - press UP to stretch to the ceiling and latch on, then press DOWN to return to the floor. His robotic construction ensures he takes only limited fall damage compared to other characters.
